HEXA Texts

Result:  
Positive (lupus anticoagulant detected); see comment.
Negative (no lupus anticoagulant detected); see comment.
Equivocal; see comment.

Clinical Interpretation by Pathologist:

FIRST PARAGRAPH
The Lupus Anticoagulant by HEXA test is POSITIVE for lupus anticoagulant according to the manufacturer's guidelines for interpretation.

The Lupus Anticoagulant by HEXA test is NEGATIVE for lupus anticoagulant according to the manufacturer's guidelines for interpretation.

The Lupus Anticoagulant by HEXA test is at the border between a negative and a positive result.  The results are therefore EQUIVOCAL.  If clinically indicated and at an appropriate time, the Lupus Anticoagulant by HEXA test could by repeated.

SECOND PARAGRAPH
[A negative test result in this assay does not exclude the possibility of a lupus anticoagulant.]  Current guidelines suggest testing for lupus anticoagulant with two clot based tests (J Thromb Haemost 2009; 7: 1737-40) and it is noted that the concurrent RVVT assay is [also positive/negative/equivocal] in this patient.  Lupus anticoagulant testing should be considered positive if one of the two tests gives a positive result. [Given the negative results in both the Lupus Anticoagulant by HEXA and RVVT assays, the findings are negative for Lupus Anticoagulant.]

THIRD PARAGRAPH

FOR POSITIVES
Testing for lupus anticoagulant in the presence of anticoagulant therapy (including warfarin, direct thrombin inhibitors & direct factor 10a inhibitors, and supratherapeutic heparin) is not recommended due to possible interference with test results.  Clinical correlation is advised as anticoagulation therapy may result in a false positive result; [in this sample a false positive is unlikely given the strength of the positive result.]  The presence of factor deficiencies or a factor specific inhibitor may also interfere with this assay.

FOR NEGATIVES AND EQUIVOCALS
Testing for lupus anticoagulant in the presence of anticoagulant therapy (including warfarin, direct thrombin inhibitors & direct factor 10a inhibitors, and supratherapeutic heparin) is not recommended due to possible interference with test results.  The presence of factor deficiencies or a factor specific inhibitor may also interfere with this assay.  Clinical correlation is advised.

FOURTH PARAGRAPH
[Positive test/Test] results must be interpreted in their clinical context if a diagnosis of antiphospholipid syndrome is being considered.  J Thromb Haemost 2006; 4: 295-306 provides consensus guidelines for diagnosis of antiphospholipid syndrome.



Scott Kogan, MD
82493

